1 Introduction

Since Darwin's theory of species evolution was put forward there 
was some trouble to explain cooperative traits on animales and 
humans. For that the darwin's theory incorporate two novels kinds 
of extention. The genetical kinship theory that Hamilton grounded 
mathematicaly (hamilton,64) and the reciprocation theory 
(Trivers, 71). Both appended theory able explanation of social 
altruism behavior through natural selection. In evolutionary 
biology, reciprocal altruism is a behavior whereby organism 
perform costly act that benefit the recipient with expectation 
that the other organism act similar manners at later time o in 
next generation. 

The kinship theory that after landed on kin Selection and Maynar 
Smith use in first time (Smith,64), talk about, on knowledge of 
the genetic relationships of the organism involved, how 
altruistic behavior between closed related individuals can being 
selected though the natural selection. This theory does not 
include the altruist act among distantly related organism and so 
that trivers' theory does it. The term “reciprocal altruism” was 
use for Trivers for cover this type of behavior and give 
explanation about how the selection favors the altruistic 
behavios in long run when in population there are reciprocity. 
Some of most relevant and releable examples about this type of 
cooperation are the Wilkinson studies in reciprocal foods sharing 
behavior in vampires bats, rotundus, (wilkinson,1984) wheres they 
share a part of harverted food only a partnet that previously 
being shared. Other about it, .... 

Diferent conditions must be fullfilled to warranted that 
reciprocally altruistic behavios will be selected for. Wilkinson 
make a clear brief of conditions must be satisfied to assure that 
the selection favor reciprocal altruismo behavior: (1) the 
behavior must reduce a donor’s fitness relative to the selfish 
alternative, (2) the fitness of the recipient must be elevated 
relative to a nonrecipient, (3) performance of the behavior must 
not depend on receipt of an immediate benefit, (4) a mechanism 
for detecting individuals who receive benefits but never pay 
altruistic costs has to exist, and (5) a large but indefinite 
number of opportunities to exchange aid must exist within each 
individual’s lifetime (wilkinson, 1987). 

Research on cooperative behaviors along non-related organism gain 
a new impulse since Trivers connect reciprocal altruism behaviors 
with famous mathematical Prisioner's Dilemma (PD) game (framed by 
Merrill Flood and Melvin Dresher 1950). The PD game is one class 
of 2x2 game that involve two players who must to choose between 
two options, generally called cooperation and defection. The size 
of reward to delievered is according both player's choice. For 
example, if both chose cooperation options both get pay-off R 
(reward), if both choice defection each other get pay-off P 
(Punishment) and if one choose cooperation and the second player 
choose defection the first get pay-off S (sucker) and other 
pay-off T (tentation) where pay-off matrix maintain inequality 
T>R>P>S.

Both iPD and Evolutionary Stable Strategies (von Neumann and 
Morgenstern, 1944, and Nash, 1949) predict, or give a sign, what 
behavior (strategy) is likely to happen whether it is adopt by 
the population, in such a way, no minority using a another 
strategy can invade (M. Smith, 1974). When the 2x2 prisioner's 
dilemma is playing for once the unique ESS es Defeat strategy. 
Nevertheless, when use pay-off matrix that meets 2R>T+P and play 
indefinite numbres of times the best strategy is mutual 
cooperation. It does not means that if one does not cooperate the 
option remains be the best option but it is the worst option. 
Axelrod and Hamilton (1981) expose that some organism's simbiosis 
can be understand through reciprocal altruism's model and when 
organisms can remember at least one previous intereaction, 
outcomes and they are able to distingish individual's difference 
then the strategies situation becomes much richer set of 
posibilities. They present a ESS for iterated PD that gather 
robustness and stability and initial viability, called TIT FOR 
TAT. It was arised as the winner strategy, submitted by Anatol 
Rapoport in the Robert Axelrod's computer tournament, because an 
individual that used it can survive invades to other strategies. 
The highly simple strategy roots inside that one cooperate on the 
first move and then doing whatever the oponent did on the 
preceding move.

.............. 

Thus, many experimenters have tried to understand different 
aspects of reciprocal altruism behavior in animals and whether 
non-human animals with less ability can solve iPD. Basically we 
want to comprise what abilities are essencial for. Green, Price 
and Hamburger (1995) assess iterated prisioner's dilemma game 
over pigons and observated that birds are so impulsivity and 
prefer small immediate outcomes rather than big long-term delayed 
outcomes. Stevens and Stephens (2003) use Blue jays on four 
different pay-off matrix, where one of them is the iPD matrix, 
over special dual operant box. This study found little 
cooperation in prisioner's dilemma treatment and this findings 
suggest that jays don't cooperate when immediate benefit is 
available (defect only), even if a long-term benefit may exist. 
Then in Steven et al. (2002 and 2005) inspired by low level of 
cooperation (Gardner et all. 1984, Clements and Stephens 1995, 
Flood et al. 1983, Green et al. 1995) proposed payoff 
accumulation and temporal clumping to iPD game using blue jays in 
a kind of apparatus that consisted of side by side V-shaped 
compartiment. They found that combined both accumulation and 
clumpling treatment birds show a level of cooperation over chance 
choice. But in Danchin et. al. (2006) critized these treatment 
arguing that iPD payoff matrix becomes stag hung matrix after 
each accumulation blocks. Adams and Mesterton-Gibbons points out 
that in Stevens et al. (2002) found that birs care less about the 
immediacy of reward if seeds accumulation in a transparent food 
tray for some time befores being deliver.

Moreover, Mendres and Waal(2000) and Waal(2000), used a pulling 
task over Capuchin monkeys (cebus apella) and a chamber divided 
for mesh to tests cooperation. They got that monkeys can adjust 
pulling task behavior according to their partner's presence and 
the food shared behavior depend of quality of own and partner 
foods.

Moreover, Mendres and Waal(2000) and Waal(2000) tested 
cooperation aspects using a pulling task over Capuchin monkeys 
(cebus apella). They use a chamber that was partitioned by means 
of a mesh with two food bowl on a external tray. The monkeys can 
get foods pulling sticks attached at the side of the tray, one 
for each. They got that monkeys can adjust pulling task behavior 
according to their partner's presence and the food shared 
behavior depend of quality of own and partner foods. Similarly, 
using a pulling task to give food to a partner and receive from a 
altruistic partner Hause et al.(2003) evaluated altruistic food 
giving behavior where share food through mesh was not allowed 
over genetically unrelated cotton-top tamarin mokeys and showed 
that monkeys give more or less foods to partner taking into 
account what was altruistic and what not. 

Knowing that pimates have high psicological capability we can 
expect that these kind of animals can able to learn reciprocal 
altruism despite of they not perform this behavior in wild, but 
the insteresting question is whether animals with less 
capabilities can learn reciprocal altruism. For the same way that 
monkeys experiments, Rutte and Taborsky (2007) assess generalized 
reciprocity in female rats (Rattus norvegicus) by means of a 
alternating pulling task in wich either the focal rats adopt a 
role of either helper to give food to a partner or a receiver 
food from a partner over a like-Wall&Menders chamber scaled for 
rats. Generalized reciprocity is kind of reciprocal altruism 
between unrelated individuals where individual make altruistic 
behavior by previous social experience irrespective of partner 
identity. Experiment was carried out with two phase. The first, 
pre-training phase in which a humand experimenter taught focals 
rats to perform alternating reciprocal task and second on 
experiment phase that after recieve help or not for several days 
from differents partners were paired with a new partnet in role 
of potencial helper. They observe the rats pull more frecuently 
when previously received interaction with food-givers partner. We 
could make a comment about this last experiment over the 
perspective of operant conditioning owing to they has assessed 
extintion rate of pulling behavior after focal rats has or not 
received food for several days rather than rise the frecuency of 
behavior by interaction between players. Then, Rutte and Taborsky 
(2008) evaluates direct versus generalised reciprocity using the 
same experiment set up. Direct reciprocity is a kind of 
reciprocate interaction in which a subjet A cooperate with B on 
account of B previously cooperate with A. They observe that rats 
the pull rate is higher and its delay to pull is lower on direct 
reciprocity than generalised. This means that know opponent is a 
more powers stimulus than unknown. Taborsky et al. (2012) shown 
that rats reduced pulling rate with increasing resistance to pull 
and Dolivo and Taborsky (2015) evince that rats take account the 
quality of foods received from opponent to future 
cooperation(pulling). 

-creo que este párrafo no va----In our search of altruistic 
behavior over nonhumand and non-primate animals we maybe demur 
that rats behavior in taborsky's experiment didn't meet all 
conditions for reciprocal altruistic behaviour rather that they 
assessed a type of reciprocity, because rats don't receive 
punishment for either punishment or temptation outcomes-----

Reciprocal altruism is widely tested by iterating prisioner 
dilemma, iPD, and the individual's decision rules size up by 
transition vector t, r, p, s that reflect the probability of 
cooperation when the previous trials resulted in outcomes of R, 
T, S or P, respectively (stevens and stephens,2004). if all 
componente of vector are 0.5, the agent's decision rule is 
randomly irrespective last outcome. Part of all experiment set 
developed by Wood et al. (2016) was measure reciprocal altruism 
in long-evans male and felmale rats using iPD in operant chamber 
divide half by removable mesh equiped with retractable lever and 
stimulus light. The best result show that cooperative behavior on 
male rats is a little over the chance near to 60%. 

To test whether the rat has ability to solve the iPD game when 
faced to altruist opponent we need to force TIT FOR TAT mimic 
behavior on the opponent (stevens & stephens 2002, St-Pierre, 
Larose & Dubois 2009, viana, Gordo, Sucena & Moita 2010). In 
Moita et al. using a mimic tit-for-tat stategy on the opponent in 
a doble T-maze chamber and neither reach a high level of 
cooperation. Our further analysis over their markov chain diagram 
gave evidence that strategy performed by rat was more selfish 
than cooperative because its adopts a alternating decision's rule 
among sucker and temptation outcomes.

The rats often develop on social groups and studies have 
demostrated that they prefer social reward rather that along or 
have a tendence to performed pro-social acts over the chance 
(Moita 2015 and Kalenscher 2015). 

But why all iPD-base studies haven't found high level of 
reciprocity? We considering about previous result in which the 
rat don't reach learn iPD and think that is maybe due to the test 
box and stimulus contingency are inadequate for its natural 
expectation, i.e. the rat maybe has ability to achieve a 
aproximated optimal solution but for example the lenght of time 
used for made contingency is longer that rats can keep in mind or 
maybe don't realized the real difference within payoff matrix 
amounts. As a result, we found that combining iterated 
Prisioner's Dilemma matrix payoff and delay's penalty for 
released reciprocation and tit for tat oponent's strategy achieve 
high level of reciprocal altruism behavior in rats.

2 Material and Method

2.1 Subjects and Housing

Two group of long-Evans rats (Charles Rivers....) were used. 
Twelves males were used like subjects and six (Nstooge=6) 
identical rats like oponentes. At weaning time all subject were 
housed in group of two rats per cage to addressing social 
interaction and each stooge in single individual cage. We had 12 
cage altogether. All rats were food deprivated schedule, and to 
subject rats dialy food intake was restricted to keep animals at 
between 90-95% of free feeding body weight and to stooge rats at 
between 80-85% of free feeding body weight. The housing room had 
an average temperature of 22°C and 12:12h light:dark cycle on at 
20:00 hours.

We used two opposite standard operant chamber by Med-Association 
(Product ENV-008) in such manner that each rats can make 
olfactory and eye contact through metal windows (FIGURA 1 CAJAS). 
Each standard chamber was equiped with two side by side lever and 
two stimulus light over each lever and a feeder in the center. 

2.2 Experimental Setup

.

2.3 Experimental Design

2.3.1 General Task Design

.

2.3.2 Typical Trial Structure

.

2.4 Analysis

.

3 Results

.

4 Discussion

.

5 Reference

